feat(docs): Historical trees docs (#3895)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/dev_docs/contracts/syntax/historical_access/history_lib_reference.md

---
title: History Reference
---

<!-- Note: This will soon be moved into an Aztec.nr reference category under Aztec.nr smart contracts -->

## Note inclusion 

> Note inclusion proves that someone owned a note at a specific block number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note inclusion proves that a note existed (its hash was included in a note hash tree) at a specific block number.
```

## prove_note_inclusion

`prove_note_inclusion` takes 4 parameters:

| Name            | Type                   | Description                                         |
|-----------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| note_interface  | NoteInterface<Note, N> | Interface for the note with necessary functionality|
| note_with_header| Note                   | The note you are proving inclusion for             |
| block_number    | u32                    | Block number for proving note's existence           |
| context         | PrivateContext         | Private context     |

> ## prove_note_commitment_inclusion

Reviewer 2: @benesjan are we still using "commitment" in some places?

Author: I can change to note hash which we've done in a few places, but since the library calls it `commitment` I've explained what commitment means here

Reviewer 2: Yea I agree in keeping it similar to the code. Hence question to Jan on why we are using that term.

How do we get the commitment btw? Is it the same as note hash? A user is definitely going to be confused.

Reviewer 2: Yea I agree in keeping it similar to the code. Hence question to Jan on why we are using that term.

How do we get the commitment btw? Is it the same as note hash? A user is definitely going to be confused.

Author: afaik it's the same thing - maybe should put a note here?

Author: added this - A **commitment**, also referred to as a **note hash** is a public acknowledgment of the existence of a note without revealing the content of the note. You can learn more about how to compress a note to a note hash [here](../../../../concepts/advanced/data_structures/trees.md#example-note).
wdyt?

> A commitment is a public acknowledgment of the existence of a note without revealing the context of the note. 

Author: ha good catch, meant to write `content`

| Name            | Type                   | Description                                         |
|-----------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| commitment  | Field | Note commitment we are checking inclusion of |   
| block_number    | u32                    | Block number for proving note's existence           |
| context| PrivateContext                   | Private Context |    

## Note validity

This proves that a note exists and has not been nullified at a specified block.

### prove_note_validity

`prove_note_validity` takes 4 parameters:

| Name            | Type                   | Description                                         |
|-----------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| note_interface  | NoteInterface<Note, N> | Interface for the note with necessary functionality|
| note_with_header| Note                   | The note you are proving inclusion for             |
| block_number    | u32                    | Block number for proving note's existence           |
| context         | PrivateContext         | Private context     |

## Nullifier inclusion

> This proves that a nullifier was included, ie a note had been nullified, in a certain block. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proves that a nullifier was included in a certain block (can be used to prove that a note had been nullified). 
```
Nullifier does not necessarily need to correspond to a note.

### prove_nullifier_inclusion

`prove_nullifier_inclusion` takes 3 parameters:

| Name            | Type                   | Description                                         |
|-----------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| nullifier | Field                   | The nullifier you are proving inclusion for             |
| block_number    | u32                    | Block number for proving note's existence           |
| context         | PrivateContext         | Private context     |

## Nullifier non inclusion

> This proves that a nullifier was not included, ie a note had not been nullified, in a certain block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proves that a nullifier was not included in a certain block (can be used to prove that a note had not yet been nullified in a given block).
```

Nullifier does not necessarily need to correspond to a note.

### prove_nullifier_non_inclusion

`prove_nullifier_non_inclusion` takes 3 parameters:

| Name            | Type                   | Description                                         |
|-----------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| nullifier | Field                   | The nullifier you are proving inclusion for             |
| block_number    | u32                    | Block number for proving note's existence           |

> | context         | PrivateContext         | Private context     |

Author: usually is yeah. not in history library. maybe a nit for a future PR @benesjan ?
